Hi, I'm Jonno. I'm going to be talking
about open source free software for the
people by the people. Let's talk about
the word free. Um, looking at the word
gratus, it means free to use. U, if you
remember shareware or freeear, that's
gratus software. Libra means you're free
to do with it as you want. You can copy
it, you can study it, you can modify it,
you can distribute it. Open source is
both of these things. It is not
shareware and it's not freeware.
Uh when you get open source software,
you get the application and the source
codes and it's like getting the
blueprints. It makes the product and the
company transparent. There's no secrets.
It's like Coca-Cola giving out their
secret recipe.
Hence open source. Uh open source
software powers a lot of things you use
on your Mac and your PC, uh your iPhone,
your Android. Uh you look at the iPhone
uh the operating system itself is
powered by FreeBSD which is an open
source operating system and Android has
a similar story.
It also powers a lot of websites that
you go to. uh the technology behind
Google, Facebook, YouTube, uh these all
are backed by supporting open- source
software in combination with closed
source as well. But most of it is
actually open source and the
communications that let you that let
computers speak over the internet all
are protocols backed by open source
software.
Where does it come from? Sometimes a
company will open source their product
after it was closed, but usually it
comes from someone that has an itch to
sc itch to scratch. Um,
for example, there's no software to keep
track of my scuba diving. So, I'll make
one. I create the software and over time
I create a website for it where people
can download it, they can look at it,
they can comment on it and they can
contribute ideas. Uh they can even
contribute code if they want or discuss
it.